um
no labs aren't recorded um partially
i'll explain
um in a bit why not
all right i think i'll get started so my
name's angus
i'm an undergraduate electronics
engineer at uts here
um i've done a few subjects to do with
iot design and low power design
and so i got asked to help out on board
as a lab demonstrator um in terms of
i'll just quickly
answer that question our labs recorded
labs are not recorded
um because as you'll find out in a sec
these labs
are designed to be uh once i give you a
brief intro
um today which will be 20 minutes 30
minutes
on the plan layout of this
subject um it's all in your hands to
form a group and start doing
the labs in a team and the reason
they're not recorded is because you'll
actually
each week i'll come on for 10 minutes
maybe give you a little bit of a
direction on where to go
um where to start answer any brief
questions
but other than that you will be in your
own teams and i will just
be in there to help you out across the
two hours and the two hours
the lab time allocated for two hours is
time
for everyone to reach an agreement on
when to meet up
but more so a place for me and negan if
you've been watching the lectures
um to assist you and help out
so yeah so i'll get started with the
slideshow um
let me just share my screen
oh okay give me one second i cannot
share the screen because negan is the
host give me one second
okay apologies guys i don't think i have
access to share the screen
um so i've had to um
upload the powerpoint that i'm going to
show you in canvas so if
um somebody could go to canva everybody
um so i can go through the slideshow
together
um if you could log on to canvas and
scroll down and see if you can find week
two
um powerpoint um can somebody attempt to
do that just let me know on the chat if
you haven't seen it because i until
i'm able to reach negan at the moment so
i don't think i can
uh work out how to share the screen so
this might be the best alternative for
now i apologize for that for this week
um but i think this is the best bet in
order to continue um it's only going to
be for 20
30 minutes this week um so somebody
could have a look up
and just let me know on the chat if they
can download the powerpoint
um
uh is are you looking under us right
down the bottom under week two
powerpoint and then the um
file is called wsn labyrinth jackson
no the lab introduction down the bottom
it's a pdf is it
[Music]
tell me if you're able to open it at
least
yeah i could open that
okay so don't worry about the contiki
one um i'm just looking at the week two
lab introduction
um powerpoint and i'll just go through
the slides on there
thank you very much um okay i'll give
everyone i guess a couple of minutes
just to make sure
they can get onto canvas and open it up
and then i'll go from there so
maybe about uh two more minutes
and then i'll go from there and explain
if we can just i'll let you know as i
still
change the slides which i'm talking
about the topic i'm on
um give a brief overview of the semester
and what's expected
yes
[Laughter]
um is anyone struggling or not able to
get it i've got any problems just drop
them in the chat and i can help you out
if you can't find it i don't know what
i'm referring to
if anyone's not familiar with zoom i
mean not zoom canvas
[Music]
cool so i think i'll get going because
i'm sure everyone's just pretty much
gone ahead and started to look at it
already
um so this is the lab introduction to
wireless sensor networks
so i'm sure oh negan's in here maybe i
can share the screen now
hi negan are you able to give me hosts
so i can share the screen
please
cool i think i can share my screen
[Music]
thank you
cool um so can everyone see
the screen probably fine
uh can someone just put it in the chat
of the okay cool all right so i get
started sorry
um so welcome to wsn um the lab
introduction
so i will go to the next slide um
so the agenda for this slideshow
basically
introduction so don't worry about lab
safety because you guys aren't actually
in the labs
um i will go over briefly
[Music]
um i will go over it briefly just in
case
someone who is online today wants to
come into the labs which is completely
fine with that you're able to
um be flexible each week and i guess if
you're on online
or if you want to come into labs um but
just
yeah we won't do both um so we'll go
over the lab safety just quickly
um the learning plan the lab streams the
learning platforms
lab protocols and what we're actually
going to get you to do this week
um so so lab safety so
if you are to come into the level just
briefly go over this category
lab um so just briefly no food or
drinkers in the lab
i'm in close shoes i've got to keep the
door closed and just
record any faulty equipment um so if you
can come in
uh that's what will occur um if you're
not playing
i'm just going to keep online um then
don't worry about this
disregard um so
this subject is run uh both
um face-to-face and online as you
probably realized
um we have two lab streams one is
hardware directed one is software
directed so um i'll expand a little bit
more detail on the next couple of slides
basically it's flexible based on your
needs and
what you're capable of doing and what
you're passionate about
the assignments provided are
practice based and research focus so
what that means is
we want to try and get you to work on
real world projects will problems
um that are i guess backed by
research which is uh the initial part of
the subject to commit uh conduct some
research
to find out problem areas and potential
solutions
and then develop a project based on that
that could be put into practice put into
the field
[Music]
um
has the sound unhearable i might try and
use my headphones otherwise it might be
the utvs
trying to change is it that bad you
can't hear me
yes give me one second
[Music]
i'll try to use my headphones to see if
that solves otherwise it might be a uts
wi-fi problem
in one second i apologize
um can you still hear me now is that
possibly better
and or worse yeah it's way better
okay cool cool all right i apologize
that thanks um
so i will continue on um
uh let me just share my screen again
um
cool um so uh
where are we at okay so they're online
and face to face
um and the assignments practice based
and research focus
um go to the next slide so the first
the way this lab is going to work out is
we're going to
get you guys to get into teams and
hopefully work on
a project that's either hardware based
or software based now i'm assuming
because most of you guys are online
there might be a strong preference for
software
but it's still quite fully possible
for you to do hardware if you want to do
that and if you're able to work in the
team
so what we want to do is we want to
develop a low power network on with
sensor nodes
like you see in the left hand side then
it's connected to a radio so these
sensor nodes will collect data whether
it's
moisture levels or temperature
so if you're doing a smart farming
application those are typically some
sensors you'd want to use
connect it to a edge around us so like a
raspberry pi
and that would pass it to a server
where you can hopefully remotely access
the data you're publishing or you're
getting from your sensor nodes
and publish it to a server where it's a
nice little ui interface
to connect it to so this hardware this
hardware
project is pretty much i guess a mix of
hardware and software obviously so you'd
need to
um get the hardware wire it all up get
the sensor nodes working passing the
data back
and then getting it getting the data up
on a server and a nice ui dashboard
the second um choice is just software
so in terms of software uh
projects you can do um involve like a
http request and getting data from
online
apis so a hypothetical would be
if we were talking about smart farming a
smart farming project
you would with hardware you'd have the
sensors on there to collect the soil
and the temperature of the environment
and pass it back whereas if you're doing
software you don't have those
sensors on there so what you can do is
actually access apis that are available
from companies that provide it
um to get data from that and from that
what we want you to do
is pull these pull this data from
pull this data from an online
server pull it down push it back up into
your own database
into your own server and then be able to
remotely access that
on a different pcs the idea is that
we're trying like essentially
we want you to create your own like
wireless network so
even though you don't have any sensors
and no hardware involved
um we're trying to get you to replicate
it as much as we can in the software
side
um there there is no difference in the
marking
of hardware or software so no one will
be disadvantaged
if um you choose to do one or the other
but to be it will be under consideration
the fact that hardware is a combination
of both
whereas software you're just focusing on
the end point so
um i guess there would be a little bit
more of an expectation
on the uh development of like the ui
side
particularly the visualization of the
data which is important
on the software side compared to the
hardware because there's so many prior
steps
so basically the these are the two
streams available that i spoke about
um pretty straightforward um what we
want you to do is focus on so that if we
talk about the hardware one focus on the
sensor nodes
um simple sensor application passing the
data back
this data goes to a database online to a
server
and you will visualize that data on a
dashboard and hopefully you'll be able
to remote access that on a different
pc like so you have your own local
server and once you access it
um software side is no sensor since
nodes
um but the data is from a data set or an
api um it could be real time if you can
find an api we don't expect you to pay
for anything
but there's plenty of free apis out
there where you can get data
um day to day and that could be useful
so like if you want to grab
uh http request from i sent this thing
there's something called open weather
api um something simple like that you
could go grab the data set
from open weather um pull back uh the
temperature and the forecast and you
could
create a whole projective model and
visualize the whole predictive model
whether a farmer should
water today water tomorrow water next
week is their rain anticipated to come
is going to be dry
um do some research involving that and
then coming up with a whole visual i
guess
indicator of the what's happened and
what how the farmer
should progress to get the best crop as
a hypothetical
with the streams i've talked about
back here um they're not it's not
totally necessary that you use this
hardware
um this hardware is something that we
have a list of and
what the labs that are actually going to
be published
on uts are based on so if you're not
familiar with electronics or you're not
familiar with software and it's
something you want to get involved in
and it's going to be your first time
i'd recommend and if hardware is what
you want to get into i definitely
recommend
getting involved in um
i guess the uh this exact um
kit because there's all the resources
that are available
online step by step and it's something
that i've
um i've i'm halfway through making just
so i can
i guess get my head around uh replicated
exactly so i can help you guys out but
i'm halfway through it
and it's quite it's quite a good
document and step-by-step process on how
to get this
smart farm up and going but in saying
that there is no
obligation to do this
um to do this exact project if you can
think of your own
i guess your own api data that you want
to pull from
what what we want to see is that you
have data from somewhere
you pull it down you put it up into a
server
into a database like sqlite and um
from that you visualize the data on a
dashboard that's kind of the the
it's kind of like data fetching data
storage data visualization that's what
we're trying to get here
um with a real emphasis i guess on low
power networks so if you want to do
hardware
your own hardware try and focus on
something like bluetooth low energy
ability
or something like this with a low
low pan network
feel free to put any questions in if
you've got them along the way
uh yes negan can provide the kit so
she's
got a whole bunch of kits um for this
exact
uh system um at university i'll have to
i
don't think she'll be able to uh
post-it um but uh at uni she headed
somewhere today and she's quite happy to
um give him out next week to borrow um
for the entire semester that you can
build on with you and your team
um yeah also if you've got any questions
please
just drop them in the chat i'll just
read that as i go or if anything's not
clarified
um yeah
um let me just continue on
okay so just a little bit of background
of stuff i've done i guess to validate
why i'm running uh the lab
demonstrations is my experiences in one
of my devices i've made is a remote fire
detection system
so this is something similar you can do
so on a raspberry pi i had a sensor
basically detecting light pressure
and uh temperature and it was just uh
basically a simple
iot device to remotely see if there's a
fire going on so i guess the use case
would be if you have
maybe a volatile environment and you
want to remotely access to make sure
that there's if there's a fire going on
you're notified
um so what i did was i put the uh
sensors onto the raspberry pi i
installed
node red onto the raspberry pi which is
basically node
js and iot connected so it's a way to
have
it's a flowchart system which you can
see in the left hand side
on the left hand side which you can i
guess
simply using javascript um
program it to i guess it's a more of a
visual system
uh to see the flow of data so i set it
up so i could have
the data going to an sqlite database so
my data was being
uploaded stored on there and then i was
fetching the data from the database to
put it on a dashboard
so on the right hand side so this was a
live
like a live active server i was doing it
on it locally
active server that worked really well it
was i was actually quite surprised how
well it worked
um but this is an example of i guess an
iot system that i've done
and the next one is a cattle tracker so
for any one of those that's heard of
laura it's a long range it's a
low power radio transmission system
um this use case was for
i have a family member who has a
property and they have cattle on the
property
and they um when they had to vaccinate
the young calves he would he had
lots of hundreds of acres of land that
he'd have to go on his quad bike and
look around for his cattle
and it would take him hours just to find
the single calf so i wanted to try and
work out a better system for that so i
created a
um i get a little uh collar so
a tracker which is the pcb in the top
top left of the screen so this pcb had
laura on it and gps and what would
happen
would be you can see in the bottom right
which is the aqua design
uh you'd find the caller id so i guess
you could label
nate rather than an id tag it would be
calf number one or something
you click it it would send out a ping to
a gateway
which would send out a ping to all the
nodes and all the cattle and being like
which one uh where is this cow so where
is cow
one and the tag would know its id1 and
then it would reply
its uh coordinates so that's what the
drag you know sensor data has written in
it the coordinates and its altitude
and it's um a unique key and that would
come back
and then would be displayed in the app
which if you can see i should have
zoomed in on this screenshot
but if you use the little cow on the
bottom right hand of the corner if you
zoom in that would be the exact location
of the cow
um so that's just a simple low power
network where we connected to a server
and you could remotely access i guess
where your cuddle are to solve him for
hours searching for this calf
along the way but those are two examples
of projects that i've done um
in languages i've done which i'll
explain next programming languages that
are involved so this is what i'm
familiar with
i'm familiar with python that's useful
for the raspberry pi and data
visualization
which i would definitely recommend to
any uh anyone
to use um apologies i i think everyone's
multi-skilled some would know
all the programming languages some would
be better than me some i assume would
come from a mechanical background
possibly and not know any um so this
subject's
brought in terms of it allows you to do
whatever
uh comfortability and level you're at so
i would recommend
you push yourself into something new if
you're already familiar with most of it
excellent project
but don't feel you have to go above and
beyond if
this is your first i guess introduction
into programming into electronics
um what we want to see is that you're
just learning something yourself
along the way and where the hell i'm
here to help you
get through that the next language c
c plus so if you want to do your own
project you might have an arduino that
has some sensors on it
you programmed that in crc plus um
javascript which is particularly useful
for nodejs which is js stands for
javascript which is
developing the server um or node red
which is the flow based
chart that i showed earlier to create a
server and a ui dashboard
sqlite is useful for a lightweight
database that i've had experience in
um and i know works but i'm sure there's
many others there's many more languages
and many more other
databases so phil this is not a
commitment this is just something i'm
familiar with
um and something i can just recommend
for those who i guess entering the
subject with no prior knowledge
and need a rehash or a relearn um and a
bit of direction
um so team management so this
uh this is particularly important
for you guys who are doing it online so
if you do software based
um and everyone's gonna stay online uh
communication is the key um to sex
in this lab um running
each week you need to we're gonna at the
end we'll get in the chat we'll try and
form teams to the best of our ability
um but here are some tools i would
recommend that i've used in previous
studio projects um to
i guess bring a successful project to
life and manage it well so um these
slides will be uploaded by the way so
don't stress
oh wait it's already up i put it up
earlier um you can download that but so
you can reference this after
um but draw i o i would recommend uh so
for the first few weeks
will be the planning phase of the
projects so we'll get you in your teams
and then you'll plan out what you want
what projects you want to do if you want
to do hardware or software we'll split
it up to
whatever people want to do what and um
it's the
there's an emphasis on planning before
you actually start the development
so draw io is a great tool for
simple flow diagrams to be
created it's an easy drag and drop lots
of tools on there
and that's what it's designed for to
draw simple diagrams so in the bottom
right hand corner that's an example of a
draw
io dashboard flow diagram that i did
super high level
just explained how my data was being
passed around
for that fire detection system so it's
quite it's quite useful especially in
the early stages
to visualize how everything's going to
be passed around
and with that you're able to i guess
splits those blocks up into who's
responsible for on the team
and everyone understands where the data
is coming from and where it's got to go
so sometimes there can be a bit of
confusion on who's developing the server
who's doing the embedded programming
where's this data coming from how's it
going to get there
and sometimes you miss a connection of
uh passing the data successfully online
or whether it's
passing it properly from the server or
the database to the dashboard and
by just doing these simple diagrams you
can work out your
the flow of your system trello
is something i'd also recommend it's a
great management tool especially for
multi-team members this is something i
did for a
trello i did for a personal document but
in a
in a group aspect it's simply you can
list the names at the top
and the two do's of drag and drop and
color code
uh and dead deadlines to do's of what's
what's to do in this project so if you
want to
um if someone's responsible for the
software and someone's responsible for
your hardware
you can list your mini tasks below and
that way you can see where they're up to
and if they're i guess getting it done
by the deadline so
you don't have to constantly message and
get an instant feedback you can log on
to trello and see okay where are they at
have they finished it by the deadline
date have they finished prior to the
deadline date can i get started on the
software side of this thing
github especially for anyone again who's
doing the software based if you're
familiar with git i would highly
recommend github
it's an easy way for version control
it's an easy way everyone can access
the code without having to send it by a
message
um or file transfer um and it's easy way
to track the history of who's uploading
what
who's uh who's helping and i guess
splitting up
maybe someone does the http request
someone does the server
someone does the ui and that way you can
have your each subcategories into one
uh i guess git repository and you can
all access it for those who aren't
familiar with github
or gif i guess in general um don't be
too concerned there's many other i guess
alternatives
they've got a message once
um we'll do the group um
a thing at the end so don't stress i
will give you some time at the end
before we end this call
um to try and uh allocate groups we'll
work out a way
um and oh lastly is
ms teams so what we want we're going to
create
a team uh group where we're all going to
be
in that and then we're going to create
private channels so the goal is
is i'll sum it all up at the end but the
goal is for the subject
is what we're going to do is at the end
we're going to get you into your groups
based on who wants to do software
who wants to do hardware and
um we're going to create we're based on
those teams we're going to create
private team channels so that you guys
who are in a team have a i guess a place
to communicate between each other
um and upload your files and i guess
make your own team calls for those that
are online so
it's going to be i guess the best way to
manage
the team and that way each week the labs
the labs are designed for i guess each
week won't be this long of me talking
it'll be
a brief introduction of what's expected
this week what's coming up what's you
where you should be at
and then it'll be you go into your
private team channel have a group call
and discuss your project or the
progression of the project or problems
you're facing
and any questions during these two hours
of lab period
you can um at me and i'll come in and
try and i guess give you some advice
answer your questions um help debug if
it's possible it really depends if
you're doing your own project that's
something i'm familiar with again i'll
do the best of my ability
um but if you get really neat niche and
intricate
in machine learning or something i can
i guess do the best i can as possible
within the two hour time frame to make
sure i'm helping everyone else out
um yeah so the online learning
platforms pretty much a covered canvas
where i upload where the slides are
today if you want to download them
for clarification um zoom which is here
um obviously microsoft teams which are
what we'll use when we create your
private team channels
and you can use onedrive and cloud store
for i guess
large file sharing um and i guess what
could be added there is git
github if you're
having your programs online um so
lab protocols um so what we want to do
is i guess
not necessarily review your online
materials because
uh if you're doing your own project the
lab interiors aren't directly gonna
correlate um but what i would recommend
is each week you don't save these two
hours to suddenly start working on the
project
i would allocate your team members what
you want to do or what you expect of
each of them
and then if there's any problems you can
come together as a group during this
time and ask me
or get all your questions solved or
start i guess integrating your parts
um it's it's not feasible for you just
to do these two hours a week
and somehow come with a fully connected
system
so before the lab i guess get prepare
your questions if you've got any
um yeah during the lab
feel free to come into this zoom first
i'll go through a brief
um uh explanation of what we're doing i
guess the assignments that are coming up
um where you should be at um and then
you can
break off into your i guess you go into
your private teams calls
to talk about where you're at and you
can at me with questions
um in between in there or upload
diagrams or something and ask if the
flowchart makes sense or
makes sense or whatnot um after the lab
you i guess you can feel free to
continue on your ms teams group
or you can just uh hop off
um so i guess the summary of this is you
can choose hardware or
hardware independent um it's really your
choice online
uh i guess it would be easier to do
software but
there's nothing stopping you it just if
you were to do hardware side
you would need i guess good
communication skills amongst the team
um but there's really nothing preventing
you from doing it that way
check canvas for regular updates um if
there's something wrong or if we've
we've discovered a problem in i guess
the lab uh
lab notes each week um we can i guess
clara will clarify in there
feel free to collaborate with your peers
online or on campus
so what we want to emphasize is there is
you don't have to just do the online or
you don't have to just do
the in class you can switch up um
i'll explain the team's uh
question i guess comment in a second um
uh where was i at yeah so if if you're
if you're just at home today you can
come into the
one to three lab to collaborate in
person i guess or get your hardware
if you want to get the hardware that we
have on hand
but only come to one lesson slot because
i want to
be able to help as many people as i can
but don't double up in two
sessions because i guess it's not really
fair to the people that are only doing
one session
and you're asking questions in twice the
slots
yeah please ask all your questions on ms
teams because if i don't get around to
it if there's
if i'm stuck on a group i'll be sure to
get around to it eventually
and i don't think it's fair you miss out
your question um
so in terms of this week's tasks so
ignore the first step what we want to
focus on in the first few weeks is
actually where we want to plan the group
and then we want to um we want to plan
the group
and then we want to do some actual
planning of what project you want to do
and then from there we will
if you choose to do if you're not
familiar
with programming and hardware and you
want to do hardware
we have the step by step each week we
have a lab document
of how to do step by step i guess the
programming and the connection
and that's something i'd recommend um
that way you can follow an actual
document
to do that and
i guess have a resource to rely on if
you don't want to do
the project that we have step by step
for if you've got a different passion or
you've got an industry project or
something
that's totally fine come up with your
own idea
um we'll i'll go through them next week
hopefully if you can
if we can get a group together and you
can come up with a project i'll go
through them next week if they're not
the smart farming ones so especially all
the software sides if you can come up
with a software id
um we'll go over it um the lab work
won't relate to you specifically
um but the what you'll be doing each
week in the labs will be tailored to
reaching the assignment mark so it's
split into two phases the prep phase
which is the research
and the project preparation and the
diagrams and the actual project
development
which is the other 30 which is um
actually putting the project together um
so what we want to do is want to form
teams of
three or four um and we plan to create
individual team channels so we
we hoped um we asked it to create a
bunch of individual team channels for us
um so that we could allocate group
members in there um they haven't been
able to do it
by this time and think it's the start of
uni so they're getting quite hammered
with a lot of responsibilities
so i apologize for that so this week
we basically i think the best bet is if
we um
nobody has a team group so only the
people that came into class today were
able to actually get into groups
what we're going to do is we're going to
try i guess to organize in the chat
i don't know if this will work too well
we might have to go to canvas because i
think the chat might
get bunched up we might have to go to
canvas
and use the discussion page where you
push your name
and i guess your software or hardware
preference
and then you can just comment uh if you
want to join someone's team
um does everything make sense is
anything
uh not clarified or can any confusion
um ask any questions in the chat
um i'll explain the canvas i guess
posting on there in a second where you
can
everyone er all good and understand
what's i guess
the how the labs are going to work each
[Music]
week
i guess so see no questions
okay so give me a second while i see if
we can
do we have to okay so the labs aren't
the labs aren't marked weekly no
um and nor is this actually nor is this
core compulsory
so i'm here to give you some guidance um
i guess to give you i guess a bit of
indication of
when the assignments are due what the
assignments are if you have any
questions like
do i have to do this is this report
necessary um
i'll give you some guidance on that but
the the classes and the online labs
aren't compulsory
it's just a good way for you to drop in
for 10 minutes so i definitely won't
talk this long each week it'll be 10
minutes
here's what you've got to do go into
your mstms calls and at me if you've got
a problem and i'll help debug
um there is no weekly tasks it's just
gonna be um
there there uh yeah there is no subject
in ems teams yet that's um
that's what we've got to uh just in your
question to
question um the the ms teams isn't set
up yet we just have to wait for it
to configure that all um
so uh don't worry about the ms team
stuff
we'll leave that for now and the there
will be two assignments there's two big
assignments
um one actually the two main assignments
are
one is actually a report um which is due
i think uh i'm not too sure i think it's
next month sometime i'll have to get the
specific data it's uh
it'll be up in canvas um which is
actually a written report of your whole
planning
and the the second assignment isn't
really an assignment it's actually the
submission of your project
um which we mark um so we didn't want
you to do two reports we just wanted to
do one preparatory report where you plan
out as a team
and then one project so there's no
weekly tasks at all
um any other questions
hello no questions
um so i think
i think what might be best is possibly
have a think about if you want to do
software hardware if you know anyone in
this class already i know some of you
online
no i can't hear you sorry i might have
to
um
i think it's i haven't calibrated my
headset for the sound to come through my
um headset give me one second
[Music]
try to speak now hello hello hello
um
no um
[Music]
i think because i use my headset reacted
the sound properly
uh the actual output audio
um
yeah i've tried to have changed all the
device
um for some reason that's not coming
through is you if you've got a question
you can type
um otherwise i might try and
um just disconnect my headphones and you
can just verbally ask a question
[Music]
headphones also apologies for all the
problems
this is my first time doing a zoom call
as a class is my first time running
actually this class
even though it's been running for three
years so um you guys had to bear the
brunch of all the technical problems
um which i hope you i guess teeth out by
the end of next week
i'm so apologies for that um yeah
the word count um i
i will find out of um
negan give me one second if i can look
it up
assessment task one
i will find out of negan for you um i'll
write that one down
uh in my notes um and i will get an
answer to
answer for you in terms of uh the word
count for that i know the software one
does
oh also in the assignments um it's got a
topic
uh climate what was the
i think it had um uh
like a title like smart farms or climate
control or climate uh analysis
um those when we do when we when
coronavirus hit we had to transition to
an online
subject all of last year and basically
because of that
in terms of being able to transition
this subject really quickly
we just made the projects had to be
smart farm or the climate control um
whereas now we're opening it up to
because you're all post grad students if
you have an industry preference
um you can make your own choice so
neglect the actual titles of what they
are
um what our what they're actually going
to be
is pretty much the marketing criteria is
what it's asking for is
think of it if you weren't actually
doing a smart farm but doing another
project
um create a design plan um
and so forth if that makes sense so
don't worry about the titles we're not
going to specifically make you
make you do a smart farm or climate
control it's up to you
if you want to do those ones feel free
um there's a lot of resources that we
have on them
um but yeah definitely the first
assignment in the group isn't going to
be
uh i guess necessary to do that one
um so i think
the whole so groups of three or four
people and do we need us
a bit yeah okay so the groups are going
to be three or four people that's what i
recommend you can do individual if you
want
um that's totally fine if this for some
reason you really want to do individual
um but i would uh recommend splitting
the load amongst
uh amongst a team and i think it's very
good
um i guess a way to get people from
electrical backgrounds computer science
backgrounds if you get someone
who's done computer science they might
be very good at data visualization or
data analysis
and someone who's got an electrical um
they can uh i guess focus on the
electrical side of things the hardware
um negan can you hear me
maybe um i guess not
um i think uh
to do the teams uh to sort out the group
members it's gonna get a bit messy in
this zoom chat
i think there's not going to be a really
nice way to do it so i think what we
might do
is either across the week we will create
either a microsoft teams
if the it department can create that for
us or we'll put out an announcement on
um canvas uh to
i guess uh where you can put in your
name and i guess your stream if you
wanna do hardware or software
and then you can i guess allocate your
names in the comments to the people
so don't worry about it right now um
yeah so i think that's pretty much it
for going to be for it for this lab
until we get the teams going um is there
any more questions before anyone leaves
about i guess anything
okay um so the last thing is i guess for
what what to do from now to this week my
recommendation would
be would be to have a look over the i
guess the slideshow again
have a look over the lab actual lab
documents which
are designed for hardware and the smart
farm and check
out the assignment one um
a check out assignment one or for
hardware software
um i guess to get a gauge of what's kind
of expected and
have a think of possibly if you don't
want to do the project that i guess
we're
suggesting um come up with your own
project and come back next week um and
when we
hopefully will allocate teams across the
week um
we can yeah okay yeah
um hopefully when we allocate teams
across the week um you can join your
software hardware dependent one
other than that feel free to leave if
that's
all your questions
hey i guess thank you uh sorry uh
uh you know forgotten who made you the
horse at the beginning
uh there is no work out uh
just answering one of your questions
here uh quality of your report is
important
i'm not going to count your words but
just to be consistent i'll mention
maximum
page numbers i think it was 40 pages you
don't need to extend their
your expand your report to achieve this
maximum it's just a maximum
you can have a report of 30 pages but
quality is important not
quantity not number of pages some
students may do
measurements especially for hardware
stream so i'm expecting you have more
figures in the
report this would take some of your
space
so uh yes 40 is maximum you can have it
but it's you're going to submit only one
report throughout the semester
so i'm expecting you have a high quality
report uh
some some students may even go above 40
so
you can uh reduce it to 40.
as angus mentioned you can come up with
your own
idea but just to make the assessment
fair for everyone
please use the same shell i mean in
terms of hardware software
use the same core but you can in terms
of applications you can come up with
different ideas
but please don't go very far from the
scope of this subject
this this way we can assess all of you
uh consistently okay what about project
demonstration
project demonstration uh for everything
will be
uh via zoom so this is the case for last
year we have the students they share the
screen
uh they presented their slice and if
they had any demo
uh they for example they could record a
video and show it to us or they have a
live demo
uh there are different ways but for
presentation everything
will be online
can we have a draft or a sample of the
report so that we can
uh i may i may share some reports from
our previous students i need to
remove some of the confidential parts
after we
publish your assignment one next week
then we can discuss about this
there is no such a layout for your
report as basically i can explain it
later when we publish the assignment
but basically you need to have an
introduction then project uh
statement problem statement then your
solution
and uh you need to also attach your
quotes uh
at the end of your reports so we can
check your
program um hello
hello hello yeah um
you said you were going to publish
assignment one next week
so is this because i see an assignment
one um
right now in canvas is that the wrong uh
document simon one let me see if there
was something wrong with it
published it earlier today when you were
publishing the um
labs in the class negan oh it was
probably okay
and no it should be an old version from
previous semester
uh let me see probably it was bundled
with other documents
yeah let me say okay i'm gonna disable
it
now no this is a this is another
documents we gonna
uh so that's an outdated document it's
not the real one
yeah assessment okay so i disable it now
just to
uh avoid any company because i just
enabled in the class
i just wanted to enable victor uh lab
materials
this is about them and it was about the
scoping the projects or remove it from
for this semester because basically in
the past student had to prepare two
reports for this subject this year i
decided to
encourage you to spend the majority of
your time on developing your projects
and
creating tangible results rather than
writing reports so this
scoping project is is a
change compared to last year and you
don't need to have a separate document
separate report to scope the projects
you can go directly to the
main body and just do your project from
next week
uh okay thank you i just had one more
question
um when are you free like what are your
timings that you're freaked for us to
pick up the census suite
sensor if you um
probably the best uh time for being next
week next tuesday if you can't uh uh
uh come like a tuesday before or after
uh hardware uh face-to-face class if you
can make that one that would be great
otherwise we can settle like an
individual appointment
but next tuesday definitely on campus uh
for
uh before after during face-to-face
so like around three o'clock one
one yeah one two three is our class uh
during class
before or after you can because i'm
going to distribute harvard to other
students as well on the same day
okay thanks and what room number is that
class in
class is 11 11 three
am i right i guess yeah one or two yeah
uh right here as well uh it wasn't
an answer but anyway all right um
if you if you are based in sydney i
would like to encourage you to join
face-to-face
labs not only just to work with hardware
but also you have
better interactions with your team
members that would
probably solve some of your questions
you can work
efficiently with your team members if
you join a hardware class
face-to-face class yeah negan just in
terms of
uh doing the group allocations i think
it could get quite messy if we try and
get everyone to comment in the chat
um if we get the ms teams up going
during the week
um somebody could publish i'm looking
for a team and yes
comment below that and that's where
we'll do it so i just got them i guess
to think about the projects they want to
do and when we get ms team set up and
everyone added
at that that's chris that's great sorry
everyone of us thanks we are excited to
have this uh general microsoft himself
by last friday but i think uh it was too
busy and then they referred this request
to alex sim
so it's going to be created very soon
hopefully
and then through this microsoft teams
you will see everyone's uh
ev everyone will be there then you can
create your mini channel
uh uh under this uh general channel and
you can also invite angestano if you
like to your uh
private channel with your team members
if you need any help
uh for on
canvas let's wait for another couple of
days i may i think it would be best of
your time if you do it multiple times
if i don't receive any reply from lx
team and then i will do it manually by
myself i create a channel microsoft
teams and i'll add all of you there
so well yeah so we'll get the ms teams
going and then once ms teams is going
then um you can put out your
announcement i guess if you're looking
for a team member and if you're you're a
stream you want to do
and then people can comment below that
yo i'm happy to join your team um
go from there if we can't get ms teams
up going um we'll put an announcement up
on canvas
and we'll know the alternative way we're
going to go about it yep
and please for now think about if you're
going to focus on hardware or software
stream
uh let me know like one of you just a
manual mention
so i can prepare hardware next week so
when you're on campus you can
grab it quickly so let me know in
advance how many
of you will take hardware
any other questions anyone got
so do you just want us to email you with
what hardware we require
uh before we come in yes and we're gonna
upload the slides uh angus percentage
today so you can see a list of hardware
whatever you see in that slide the uh we
have it as ucs through
uh or purchase them for our research uh
projects so you can borrow it from me
but please
bring them in a good condition at the
end of semester
if you need something else this is then
something
you should think about it and discuss
with your team members to cover the cost
but usually as you also notice from the
subject outline
students were supposed to purchase
hardware for this software
this project this subject but
this year because i had it for our
research projects and
by the way they're all brand new you can
i just wanted to
make it easier for you to work on the
project so you can borrow it
but the you may need other sensors if
you like to work on
specific topic uh then and these are not
really expensive
like if you want to purchase soil
sensors or 20
10 but the majority of hardware which
almost
they cost roughly around 300 something
they are all available
from our lab you can borrow them
cool well good [__] you got any more
comments tonight
if there is any question i'm available
uh please uh
take this week and if you don't have any
coding background because i believe some
of you are coming from different
background you might not have
similar subjects or you may not have
programming excuse please take this song
i think
i guess thoroughly explain everything
make yourself familiar with coding is
you don't need to do
complicated uh programming for this
subject it's basically prove a concept
but uh
i would like to see all of your
engagement projects and
share the load evenly among team members
and all of you are i would like to
encourage you all of you
uh get involved with the project and
also writing the report
as group teamwork and also
individual work so you will be assessed
as a team and also individually
so you are required to mention your
report in the first page that
what was your individual contribution so
i trust
you work efficiently in a team
and so other question here
yes of course this is why we develop a
second stream
software to bring more flexibility to
this object considering current
situation
i really wanted to just focus on one
stream because it's make it easier also
for angus annoy to
help you and also to
mark your reports and assist you but
because some of you mentioned last
week that you don't have access to
hardware and you are not willing to
purchase so
it says this software stream is just
designed for
students who don't have access to
hardware
you're welcome
if you know someone in this class or if
you have probably
very classmates before you can
discuss together you can see how you can
from next week how you can do this
project together
and you can i mean you don't need to
wait for microsoft teams to generate
your teams
if you know each other the main thing is
actually you know who you
are going to work with and i think angus
already mentioned team of
three to four but if you have a team of
two students or five students that's
also fine um
please try not to work individually team
of one uh
i would like to encourage you to improve
your interpersonal skills and teamwork
in addition to your technical skills
within this subject
so try to find a team member
and create a team you're welcome
okay and the other thing please only use
your uts
uh details to join uh zoom
because i can see some of you are
waiting in meeting
a waiting room so if you use your uts uh
student details you can directly join
the class
yes so if you're any more questions feel
free to just leave
and we'll put up a zoom next week and
we'll just run through
i guess making sure everyone's got a
team member um without any problems for
that and then we'll start creating
hopefully your individual channels are
up
going and we can you can start doing
your planning for the project you want
to do
pretty
[Music]
all right thank you see you okay
due to work but i know i have been
missing all the lectures
i really want to understand the context
of this class but um
are the recordings gonna be up for this
week
for this speaker the today's lab uh
was not recorded i think there was an
issue with uh
zoom uh setting we're gonna record it
from next
uh week but uh again depends on this
slab is uh it's like mainly like a q
a session so angus may help with
students for example through
teams when you have some questions you
type your question there then
angus may join your individual team and
help you so there is not that much
recording here it's not like a lecture
but if there is any general uh
explanation at the beginning let's say
10 20 minutes we will record this from
next week and make it available for
lectures yes everything will be recorded
and
i haven't received yesterday's uh
recording yet
from zoom but as uh every week will be
recorded and
uh will be posted on um cloud store i'll
be sharing the link with you
it sounds good and uh for people who
don't really have anyone who they know
in the class that
how do they find the group that they get
just including the group
uh i think we're going to hopefully get
teams sorted a public teams channel
sorted out this way across the week with
it i guess can assist us with that um
and in which once we do that we'll put
our announcement being like
post post a status if you're i'm looking
for a team member and what
stream you want to do and then people
can comment or if
you can even put your like i guess
project preference um
and then people can comment below i'm
also looking for a team and i'm also
looking for a team and there's three
members right there so we hope that's
how we're gonna go about it
um for you to allocate i guess a team
i'm sure there's plenty of people in the
same boat
um but we're hoping ms teams was up now
so you could all i guess
choose a group and anyone who didn't
could chat in the zoom call um but we're
probably going to do is
across the week you put it in there and
then anyone that's got any problems
when we run i guess a quick intro zoom
next week um
you can just put it in the chat there
and we can sort it out from there
yeah exactly and also just to mix and
match different skills in your team for
example if you
have coding background uh uh try to
join a group which they have they are
more focused on for example if you're
going on hardware
but try and mix and match different
skills so you can learn from each other
as well
and help each other sounds good thank
you
you're welcome ali thanks
oh there is a question i think i didn't
answer this one from uh
julie yes same topic but you may take
different
approaches i mean same hardware and
software
you're going to use different of course
different
coding languages but you may you
think about different applications for
example on the smart agriculture you can
think about different applications or
even today we had a
group in our face-to-face class they
proposed another topic which was the
line with wireless sensor network so be
accepted to
access them to work on that project so
uh
it's good to think outside the box if
you like to do something and if you want
to leverage on this project for your
future uh
projects like uh for your future like
master's graduate project
you can think about these subjects as a
stepping stone for that project if you
have other ideas
uh feel free to discuss with us and
you can take you can propose your own
project
but let's wait for a week you will see
project description
and then we can discuss more about
project topics
[Music]
oh good thanks so just for joining
any other questions
thanks
no
did you want to leave the zoom running
or did you just want to i guess if no
one else
got any more questions
oh you're immune thanks
so yeah if there's no question that was
like an introduction session for our
labs so we will focus more on practical
uh sub from next week uh
if you don't have any question please
feel free to leave or
uh sorry when there'll be a
team chat for this week yes we
it will help us hopefully to sort out
this we will have a
team for for our class and then you can
have you can just type your question
there and everyone can contribute
especially angus annoy and other
students can also if they have same
questions they can get involved
as uh today's slide will be published
soon uh
i already put it up um okay i'm gonna
give you a screen so i had to post it on
canvas
thanks
so if there is no more question we can
wrap up today's session
i'm just going to say if it is not not a
big ask um
would you be able to do a recap of the
lab for
me um uh the slides uh so
the slides are on canvas um
that i went through today basically it
was introduction but uh
basically um you can pick a hardware or
software stream
um to do a project i'm
gonna be in teams of three to four we
recommend again if you've got
two or if you've got five we can make it
work
um each week we're going to upload the
labs
they're a document which i guess helps
you step by step to a project
those people i guess who aren't
experienced in electronics
and or software and want a bit more
assistance in there
i guess designing something so i think
it's tailored for a smart farm
[Music]
and there's the hardware you'll need for
that you can do that
that's what the diagrams are depicting
in the slideshow um also in the
slideshow i guess are references to
programming languages but basically
across the week
what we what we're going to do is going
to make microsoft teams you're going to
put what if you want to do software
hardware and then hopefully people will
comment
under your name or your comment under
their name if you want to join their
team if you feel like
they've got a preference and that you've
got electrical engineering background
and they've got computer science
background
that way you can complement each other
and the way the labs are going to work
each week
is i'll have probably a 10 minute maybe
15 minute uh intro
of i guess what's coming up assignments
um releases
um where you should be at um answer any
i guess brief questions
in the chat and like i guess brief uh
administrative questions
and then um you'll hopefully will have
created the private teams channel where
your three to four group members will be
in
and then in that group channel you'll
have a
you'll make your own um uh
i guess call with them to like uh
delegate roles and i guess plan your
project and stuff and then if you've got
any questions you can add me
or you can and um we'll be able to
answer them internally in your team's
channel
if that makes sense that makes sense and
when we talk about hardware and software
stream is that more about
you basically focus on what you're
strong at or what you prefer no
well yes and i mean you should always
push
for i guess what what you want to learn
just because you're not good at hardware
doesn't mean you shouldn't do it
um because this is more more of a
learning curve i guess it's like i
prefer to say
if someone's pushing themselves into
something you're not familiar with
picking up a new skill
and just i guess getting better at
software and they're already good at it
um the reason we offer two streams is
because uh a couple of uh
i mean a selection of students in this
class are international
um and so getting hardware can be quite
a problem for an assortment of reasons
um and so we don't want to put them in
any disadvantage or expectation to tell
them to purchase it
so it's completely your preference um
i think you get more out of the hardware
side if you can but there
definitely is many applications for the
software side um it's your choice and i
guess your team's choice
sure what is sort of the difference
between hardware and software side
because
you have to use some hardware right like
a raspberry well no because the way it's
designed is so what we want to do is
like i guess
it's in the slideshow but the what the
thing what
i guess the aim of the project is to
have a low power network
where you'll collect data from sensors
this will be
transmitted using a low power i guess
transmission whether it's like a
low pan or like laura or ble bluetooth
low energy
and that will go to a like a raspberry
pi and you'll push that up to a server
and then up at the server you'll create
a ui dashboard where you can
have the data published and then
hopefully you have a remote pc that you
can see this data published on
now the software side is because you
don't have the hardware to actually
fetch the data
we want you to get um data from apis
like real-time apis or if you don't have
any real-time
data sets and basically it's a bit i
guess
repetitive but what we want to do is
replicate as if you had hardware
so you would pull the data sets down you
would push it back up to your own server
and then you'd create a ui dashboard on
your own remote server
so that you can access it on any i guess
pc on that network
um if that makes sense okay it does so
when we say hardware it
specifically targets the sensors um
well that's what that's what the
hardware would be involved yeah the
hardware is the actual
i guess the the collection of your own
like data that's what the hardware will
be used for in this
um low power data collection that's
that clarifies it thank you cool um it's
a bit more
like graphical depiction in the
slideshow but i mean feel free to send
me an email or anything if you
it makes perfect sense but that's that's
where you know if you don't have your
senses obviously is your uts senses or
whatever
what yeah yeah exactly i'm pretty sure
uts has their own i guess api i'm pretty
sure for like logging stuff
they do yeah yeah that's yeah but i mean
if you're
if you're able to come if you leave it
based in sydney
um i would definitely recommend possible
coming into the on uh
face-to-face class and just grabbing the
hardware that you can borrow off
negan um that way you can
get involved in both sides of things but
again completely up to you
what kind of hardware is available is
that mostly uh sensors
again it's in the slideshow it's a very
specific set of hardware because it's
designed
the labs have been designed to step by
step how to's
on pull together a whole system um
uh it's uh where if you
the so if you go to canvas the
slideshow's up there under week two
um powerpoint and it's called wsn lab
introduction
um and it's got i think it's in it's in
the sixth slide
um it's a little blue table and it's got
all
all the i guess the um uh
hardware that's needed and in there's
actually a
graphical depiction on how the hardware
interacts
yeah and if you'd like to use your own
hardware i would assume that you will
we wouldn't be restricted to this once
as well right oh no no
if you want to use your own hardware um
that's completely fine um
yeah it's just that would start if when
you start to use your own hardware
it starts to become um i guess a lot
more like work on your end
um because there isn't step by step
processes so you just you guys have to
push yourself but if you're comfortable
doing that then
yeah i definitely recommend it as long
as i guess the same as long as it covers
the process of
data fetching like low power data
storage
and data visualization so that's the
kind of flow we're looking to i guess
replicating the projects that's the
point wireless sensor networks yeah and
these hardware
when they communicate to raspberry pi
they all do they all use different types
of uh
communication so it's like bluetooth low
of energy is probably one of them but
the are the other one are the ones that
are being used or is it like a common
one uh it depends on application depends
so you have stuff like laura
um which is uh like a long-range rf
communication protocol
um and that's useful for like um
low data rates but long transmissions so
that can go over like many kilometers
whereas ble is designed to be very
um like short distances but a fair bit
of data
um in lowest factors so it really
depends
um what the application is you're trying
to do
yeah so that makes sense so like as in
like the hardware that is available
uh it sounds like they are the hardware
that's available is um something called
uh
i think um
[Music]
uh
yeah i'm not sure if i ha i haven't
looked into the chip enough to see if
there are other communication protocols
on that ship i'd have to have a look
again just because asking because my
sensor is just using bluetooth low
energy but if there is a protocol that
is as you said more applicable to my
solution and it's not available to me i
would probably
choose to use the ets hardware because
that's alright there right i don't want
to buy that
well feel free on that show to have a
look
at what it is using like i mean you you
totally like you you can you know it's
good for the heart of it yeah
yeah so the yeah we've got all the part
numbers and exactly what we're using
what we can give out
um yeah it sounds good research in terms
of what communication protocols on the
device and if it's multi-use or
not and can you borrow this and take it
home if you don't need to go
in if you don't want to go into the labs
for every week for sort of
yeah you use that at home yeah so we'll
take your names down and your group
names down but you can borrow you can
yeah borrow
the equipment for 12 weeks just like
it's i guess there's no way you could
possibly
get it all up and running on like in two
hours without any teething problems and
pull together a successful project so
yeah it's more than fine to take the
hardware home
put it all together that sounds good
thank you
and you if you work in a team uh which
i'm expecting you to do
you can take we can you can take one
hardware kit for for your team and then
you can share it
among your team members but throughout
the semester you can
uh keep it not necessary you don't need
to be on campus to use it
yeah sounds good thank you
i mean since no one else is asking
questions um
let me hope this conversation a little
bit more but
uh so it sounds like the subject is very
sort of flexible
in a sense that your affiliate is
whatever you want in terms of hardware
or
languages it really depends on how you
sort of
frame this in your group and what you
want to do as a group and as long as
that you agree upon that sort of thing
you can do whatever you want really
right yeah as long as it focuses on the
core of the idea
is like a wireless sense of networks and
wireless sentence networks i guess
the focus is on low power communication
and then data storage up to a database
and a server and then data visualization
as long as it follows those core
i guess um aspects like that we're more
than happy for a bit of flexibility
because everyone's postgrad everyone's
got i guess their own niche and their
own maybe my industry projects their own
preferences
or they might have a graduate project
coming up they might want to do a part
of
um so we're not i don't think it's
necessary to constrain you to something
if you've got a passion in some area
as long again as long as it follows i
guess that kind of below
please not if you do something else if
you work on different type of hardware
as angus mentioned
then you may basically rely on yourself
and your expertise
if you like to have a step-by-step
instruction and more support
follow the hardware we suggested
online but we have some students we used
to have in the past some students
industry they have something that's
experienced and they
uh they're more comfortable to work with
different type of hardware or software
and i
uh because the majority of our students
are postgraduate
it's good to have a flavor of research
and
creativity in the project so you have
this kind of flexibility
it's such a lot to you yeah that's good
and then
we're obviously solving one or two
business problems that design
specification is going to detail right
yes uh
check your assignment description uh
next week
and then if you want to propose
something it should be somehow in terms
of layout and
achievement and outcome it should be
similar to that so we can
have a consistent assessment across
our students across 53 students in the
class
sounds good thank you
cool
um yeah i mean maybe we should wrap it
up i think
possibly i think if yeah if there is no
more question
we can also catch up through email and
hopefully
teams later this week
thanks back with some more next week
oh i probably will i'll wait
thanks for being useful
see you next time
so
i think we might just i guess i think we
should end it
yeah of course of course okay why
everyone
buy angus yeah